I'm Oliver I come from Berlin and I'm
the founder of an open-source project
called world brain dot IO I'm the
founder of this project and what we're
developing is a peer-to-peer search
engine for personal and collective
knowledge so imagine you can do research
around battery technologies and instead
of using Google and figuring out
yourself what is quality information and
what is contextual information you could
search inside Elon Musk's knowledge and
say like uh what what did Alon read
about lithium mining and what kind of
background information to define in the
form of papers very good social media
posts etc that's a kind of social part
the collective intelligence part but to
make that knowledge accessible we
develop a tool called mimics mimics is a
tool right now it's a combination of a
Google search but for everything you've
seen in the past so for every website
paper and social media post a Google Doc
style highlighting and commenting
feature that you can use across the
entire web so on all websites and papers
and social media posts again to then
start collaborating and having
conversations on top of the web content
you're seeing so world brain that i/o is
a peer-to-peer tool and we're now
building out the peer-to-peer part
specifically the collaboration features
which are quite tricky to do if it's not
centralized we actually don't think that
decentralization is what we should
optimize for in the development of our
software we think decentralization is a
tool among many that all should move
towards increasing trust in institutions
and infrastructure we think
interoperability as a core optimization
is more impactful because in the end
what it will produce is this kind of
free-market dynamic where users can
leave a service at any given time and if
they do leave a service and move to
another one never lose their data and
never lose access to their existing
social network which then
would naturally let people gravitate to
the services that suit them the best and
that might be then services that use
decentralized technologies under the
hood so meaning for example ipfs or
blockchain and like a pure blockchain
based technology what I see a lot in
decentralization space as a whole like
we're now talking also about blockchain
projects around to not just be
centralized databases like IPS or
decentralized transport peer-to-peer
protocols likely p2p or so but as a
whole that there is a lot of like Silver
Bullet solutions that focus purely on
technology and I hope that over the next
couple of years people realize that
there's many more components to a
large-scale social change that needs to
happen and that doesn't happen if we
just focus on one of those and in
particular one that I would like to
highlight is the notion of how we share
success as communities and the way we do
that right now in the world is through
your equity private equity stocks or
tokens these are the three dominant ways
of doing it and what they all do is they
do produce a speculative environment and
with a speculative environment we always
as communities as organizations optimize
for infinite growth right like because
growth in the end is the only thing that
matters on how shareholders or token
holders make profits and what that
produces is a culture that is based on
political competition meaning it's it
creates an elbow Society and the same
dynamics that we had in in capitalism as
in its current incarnation and that we
now have for example in token economies
is exactly the same right just that we
have now not companies competing against
each other on a political level to
dominate markets now it's communities
kind of worse because now it's people
against people and not like at least
like anonymous companies and that hope
so what I hope is that we move to other
ways of measuring success as communities
and that would be